# personality-heuristic-agi
The driving algorithm of volition is the question "what" meaning duck-typing and object recognizing in all of our precepts and memories (sensation, language, image, video, game) and "why" meaning the scientific method acting on all our configurations of "what"s in service of our preferences. "Why" can take us back into causal discovery, and also forwards into ethics and personality formation through algorithms similar to STRIPS, G.O.A.P., and the work of culture to share knowledge.
I propose an algorithm concerned with assigning attributes generally and formally to all combinations of perceivable information. The problem of defining a planning domain definition language is that you choose how complex to make the description of hypotheses. A prototype has been built which uses atemporal, deterministic causal relationship which are one to many. It is one of the simplest descriptions of hypotheses. Causality happens immediately, there is one clear cause, and many effects. These are ideal parameters for causal discovery algorithms. I propose a meta-domain definition which allows interplay between causal domain definitions. Allow any type of hypotheses to be put into the ramification algorithm (STRIPS or G.O.A.P., etc) and when testing actions and hypotheses, check the attributes of the hypotheses and apply any algorithms capable of applying them to the world state. Since hypotheses of causality are applied to world states, not fundamental, we can then continue execution of ramification explorations of imagined futures, pasts, timelines, and stories.
For example battery each combination of functions and efor each experience and action, a preference is a possibly recursive xpressions of perceived state variables like their concavity and their presence within ranges. For example (battery' > -1): a preference against losing a unit of battery life per unit of time. Our preferences are algebraic expressions applied to state variables we use to give our stories about our memories and experiences quantifiability. Since we are always defining our answers to all our "why"s as well as our "what"s this next layer provides out "ought"s which is a key feature of AGI because it is what is in humans prompting LLMs that keeps them going toward actions that tend toward the preferences and aligned goals.
We are speaking of the framework for a new field of personality heuristic refinement algorithms which are AGI.
